# Command-line greeting program

## Table of contents:
1. [What I learned](#what-i-learned)
2. [How to test programs](#how-to-test-programs)
3. [Environment variable](#environment-variable)
4. [Making your program executable](#making-your-program-executable)
5. [Parameters](#parameters)
6. [Main function](#main-function)
7. [Linters](#linters)
8. [Docstring](#docstring)
9. [Makefile](#makefile)

### What I learned:
- How to handle command-line arguments using `argparse`
- How to run tests for the code with Pytest
- Learn about `$PATH`
- How to use tools like YAPF and Black to format the code
- How to use tools like Flake8 and Pylint to find problems in
the code

### How to test programs:
1. To run `pytest` in verbose mode use:
```shell
pytest -v test.py
```
2. Test files must be in the same directory with your app files
3. To stop tests on the first failed use `-x` argument:
```shell
pytest -xv test.py
```
4. Output format from pytest:
    - `-` - shows the actual output generated by your program
    - `E` - shows that this is an error
    - `+` - shows what the test expected to get from the program

### Environment variable:
1. `env` - command shows all environment variables in your system
2. You can use `env` to run programs on your computer. `env` will look for your program on your system. For example to run Python:
```shell
env python3
```

### Making your program executable:
You can add shebang line to your scripts in order to avoid using `python3` command when running them.   
All you need is to make your script executable with:
```shell
chmod +x my_program.py
```

### Parameters:
Remember! When you define parameters via `argparse` module, parameters that start with *dashes* are *optional* (they also can have default values defined), while parameters that *don't* start with dashes are *positional* and they are required (don't have default values)

### Main function:
*Main function* - is the entry point for executing the program in Python. It is a common practice to add this function to Python programs at the end of the codefile
```python
if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```
More about main function [here](https://docs.python.org/3/library/__main__.html)

### Linters:
To use `flake8` linter use:
```shell
flake8 my_program.py
```
or
```shell
pylint my_program.py
```

### Docstring:
A *docstring* - is used to document a function or part of the code. Docstring is usually a triple quotes (""" """)

### Format the code:
To format the code use:
```shell
black my_program.py
```
or
```shell
yapf my_program.py
```

### Makefile
*Makefile* - specifies the recipe for `make` command. In short, `make` allows you to automate the tasks. For more info look at ["What is a Makefile and how does it work?"](https://opensource.com/article/18/8/what-how-makefile)

To run tests use:
```shell
make test
```